# Overview
Local Legend is a react web app for getting AI generated surf condition reports.

## Features
* User login/registration
* User profile management
* Favorite surf spots for quick access to surf condition 
* Schedule notifications to recieve text and email updates on current conditions at surf spots
* Explore nearby surf spots based on geolocation
* View detailed descriptions of surf spots generated by AI
* Google maps intergration for quick access to driving direction
* 3-day forecast for surf spots
* AI generated recommendation for best day to go surf

# Project Setup

# Project Structure
```
INF124PROJECT/
├── backend/
│   ├── node_modules/
│   ├── src/
│       ├── controllers/
│       ├── middleware/
│       ├── models/
│       ├── routes/
│       ├── services/
│       ├── db.js
│       ├── index.js
│       ├── utils.js
│   ├── .env
│   ├── package-lock.json
│   ├── package.json
│   └── <sp2025-inf124-firebase-adminsdk-*.json>
├── frontend/
│   ├── node_modules/
│   ├── public/
│   ├── src/
│       ├── assets/
│       ├── components/
│           ├── Custom/
│       ├── hooks/
│       ├── api.js
│       ├── APP.js
│       ├── index.css
│       ├── index.js
│   ├── .env.development
│   ├── .env.production
│   ├── .firebaserc
│   ├── .gitignore
│   ├── .firebase.json
│   ├── package-lock.json
│   └── package.json
├── node_modules/
├── .gitignore
├── LICENSE
└── README.md 
```

## Dependencies 
* Axios
* Bootstrap
* React
* React Router

## Cloning Project
To clone the project simply select "Code" drop down on the github repository page and then clone the project using HTTPS, SSH, or GitHub CLI.

## Installing Dependencies
`npm install`

## Creating Firebase Project and Google Cloud Platform Project (Optional)
Follow this documentation for creating a new Firebase project. 
Follow this documentation for creating a new Google Cloud prject.

### Required Goggle Cloud Services
* Geocoding API
* Geolocation API
* Generative Language API

## Generating serviceAccountKey
* Navigate to the project Firebase console home
* Select gear icon in the left sidepanel to open 'Project Settings'
* Navigate to 'Service Accoutn'
* Select 'Generate new private key' at the bottom of the page
* Wait for .json file to download
* Move .json file into root directory of local project

## Getting Access to Google Cloud Project and Firebase Project

### Install Firebase CLI

`npm install -g firebase-tools`

### Credentials 

NOTICE: DO NOT SHARE PRIVATE KEY OR MAKE PUBLIC 

## Set up .env
The project requires two .env files for setting environment variables to store private variables and API keys. 

**Frontend**

.env.development
````
REACT_APP_API_URL=http://localhost:8080/api
REACT_APP_FIREBASE_API_KEY=<Browser key (auto created by Firebase) API KEY>
````

.env.production
````
REACT_APP_API_URL=https://sp2025-inf124-app-489605456999.us-west1.run.app/api
REACT_APP_FIREBASE_API_KEY=<Browser key (auto created by Firebase) API KEY>
````
**Backend**

.env
````
PORT=8080
FIREBASE_SERVICE_ACCCOUNT_PATH=../../<sp2025-inf124-firebase-adminsdk-*.json>
GEMINI_API_KEY=<YOUR GEMINI API KEY>
GEOSERVICES_API_KEY=<GEOSERVICES API KEY>
````
## Available Scripts
### Frontend Scripts
In the project directory, you can run:
* `npm start`

    Runs the app in the development mode. Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) to view it in your browser.\
    The page will reload when you make changes. You may also see any lint errors in the console.
* `npm test`

    Launches the test runner in the interactive watch mode. See the section about [running tests](https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/running-tests) for more information.
* `npm run build` 

    Builds the app for production to the `build` folder. It correctly bundles React in production mode and optimizes the build for the best performance.\
    The build is minified and the filenames include the hashes. Your app is ready to be deployed!\
    See the section about [deployment](https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/deployment) for more information.
  
* `firebase emulators:start --only hosting`

     Firebase Hosting has a local emulator so you can test exactly what will end up on your live site:

* `firebase deploy --only hosting`

    Once you’re satisfied with the build locally, deploy using this command. The CLI prints out a live URL under Hosting URL. Open that URL in your browser to see your React app live.   

* `firebase hosting:channel:deploy preview-1`

    Preview changes on a temporary “preview channel”. If you want teammates (or clients) to see updates before going live, use a preview channel.
    This builds (if needed) and deploys to a unique temporary URL. Share that URL; it’s valid for 7 days (by default).
    

### Backend Scripts
* `npm run dev`

    Launches dev server for testing purposes

* `gcloud run deploy my-service --source . --region us-west1 --allow-unauthenticated`

    Deploying from Source. Cloud Run can auto-generate a Dockerfile using Cloud Build if you run gcloud run deploy --source . from your project root. 
    This is the quickest approach for a standard Express app.
